In this section we will learn about the much more robust way of serialize izing your eloquent models
to J Some and this is called La avail resources.
So first let's remind ourselves what we have right now.
So we've created a simple API endpoint that returns all the comments of a blog post.
What we have also achieved is we have hit in some fields that we do not want to be returned.
And also we have included user relations so it's our domestically serialize.
And we've achieved all that using the simple one liner where we just fetch the query and let a lot of
do all the magic.
And then we've used this hidden protected field to specify which columns we wants to be shown and which
we would like to be hidden.
So basically everything that's inside hidden property is not being displayed.
So now let's go and see how we can achieve it much better and robust way using lot of our resources.
So let's take a look at this resource concept.
So it's actually extremely simple.
So you will generate a class called the resource for every eloquent model that you have.
You will generate at least one resource class.
You can have many because what resource does it is deciding how to serialize your model and you are
in full control of how you would serialize a model.
For example you can not only decide how you will call the keys of this serialized object like here we
are using just the attribute names of eloquent model.
So you can modify that.
You can also modify the values.
So let us go ahead and create our first simple resource for the comment model.
As usual a lot of it has a command to generate this code.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Open the terminal and run peach pea artisan make resource and let's call it comment so it was created
successfully and now you can find those resource classes inside that up folder.
Page GDP resources.
Let's open up the comment resource.
This is how it looks like it only contains one method to array in which you will define how you want
your resource to be serialized.
Now before we will modify this method let's first see how you should even use those resource classes.
So let's go back to the post comment controller and the first thing you will have to do is to import
this new class.
So use up h DDP resources comment and it's a convention to import these resource classes.
We found Elias us comment resource in case you will be using the eloquent model comment.
This will let you avoid the naming conflict.
Now let's go ahead and try to immediately use this new resource so mind that first we will try to serialize
a single comment so I know that we are returning multiple comments but now let's try with a single one.
So we return a new comment resource so you create this class and the only parameter it expects is the
actual model.
So it will then know how to serialize it.
So we do post comments first so this will just give us the first element of the collection.
So the first comment say the changes and now let's see what we got.
So you might have noticed that it has changed a little bit.
So the most important difference is now that the data is bankrupt inside our data field.
So this is being added when you use resources.
I will show you how to get rid of that later but that's the most important change and it is done for
a reason.
Because using the resources it's very easy to add some additional parameters like metadata or some links.
And this is useful when you have collections because sometimes you might want to provide additional
information how many items are in the collection and what are the links to get the next elements of
this collection.
We'll see that in a second.
So you can see that currently we have the same data that we will have when we would normally serialize
on the eloquent model by just returning it as an array from the end point.
And this is because it is using the defaults that we have.
So this will call to array on this element.
So this element I mean that eloquent model that we have passed through the constructor so to overwrite
how you serialize things we will return an array and now how to access the attributes of an eloquent
model.
So it is actually very easy you can access them using this so if you would like to return an I.D. you
can use this I.D..
So every attribute that is out there in your eloquent model is now available under this.
So let's check that out.
So now we would like to serialize only the ideas of the resource and you can see that it works perfectly
we have only serialized that I.D..
So let's also add content.
This is also available under this content.
Created art
which is this created art and may be updated art which is this updated art now.
Let's try this.
Now you might have noticed something unexpected that now the dates are being serialized as an object
because they are actually carbon objects.
And this was automatically converted to string before but now it's not.
So you are in full control here and you can decide how you can return your dates.
So to just return this as string you can cast these attributes to a string using this simple type casting
of BHP.
So this will use the carbon date to string magic method
and now you have it as you had before.
So this is converted to a string OK.
But here we are just realizing one eloquent model and this end point is about comments not a single
comment.
So how you can easily return a collection of elements.
So there are some specific objects that you can create called Resource collections.
But we have before we get to that it's also possible with just this simple comment resource class.
So our resource class for a particular model and instead of creating a new instance of this model what
you would do is you would call a static method called collection and it accepts our collection of something.
In this case.
This is not post comments first but post comments.
So every element now let's save the changes.
You can also comment out this line for clarity.
And now let's see what do we have so we have our collection of all the comments for this blog post too
wrapped inside the data with the attributes attributes that we want it and how we want it then we are
in full control of course we do not have a user data we'll get to that in the next lecture.
But now let's also see that it is actually possible to control how this element is being returned if
you will go back to the comment resource.
And for example you might want to return this US comment I.D. not just that I.D. as the attribute is
called in that eloquent model you can do that now you can see there is a comment I.D. as the object
element key not that I.D. us in that eloquent model.
So this is how you can control that of course.
Well you don't really need to do that but in case you would like to customize their property names of
the adjacent objects.
This is how you can do that.
So you are in full control.
So in the next lecture we will see how we can work with the relations of a particular resource and control
what properties of our user.
We would also like to serialize.